ec2 is your computer in cloud
it provides scalable computing capacity in the aws cloud(instance sizes)
based on the requirement we can create no of servers, we can configure security, networking, ans manage storage(while launching the server)
EBS stores the data for that ec2 instance.
ec2 purchasing options: 
on-demand:
most expensive purchasing option,
most flexible purchasing option
you are charged only when the instance is running(billed by hour)
you can provision/terminate the instance anytime
Reserved:
we can purchase the instance for time period(1-3 yrs)
significant price discount
once you buy a reserved instance,we are responsible for the entire price, regardless of how often you use it.
spot:
amazon sells the unused instances,for short time at lower price.
spot price fluctuate based on the supply and demand in the market.
charged by hour
it is like bidding process whoever quotes more money they get the spot instance.
this is not for actual deployments. 
for less amount of time you need high configuration server with less price you can go for spot instances.
 
in aws account we create on demand instances generally.
Dedicated host or instance:
the underlying hardware will not be shared with other tenants.
vpc and IAM are not chrageable and other all services are chrageable.
how are we charged for using ec2?
ans) purchasing options
     on demand
     reserved
     spot
   instance family and type
   general purpose 
   compute optimised
   GPU optimised
   Memory optimised
   storage optimised
 EBS Optimised(option for higher IOPS performance)
AMI type(price varies on distribution/software packages)
    linux
    windows
data transfer(in/out of the instance)
regions
aws offering 30gb of ebs storage in a freetier account

AMI:
its a preconfigured package required to launch an ec2 instance.it includes os and software packages(like git nano editor curlwget packages etc., ) and other settings.
AMI provides the information required to launch the instance, which is virtual server in the cloud.
we can launch as many instances from the AMI as you need
when we launch an ec2 we first select ami
we have 3 types of AMIs 
1) community AMI 
     -free to use
     -generally it contains only os
2) aws marketplace AMIs
     -pay to use 
     -it comes with os and some additional licensed softwares
3) my AMIs 
   that amis you can create yourself
we can create AMIs by using packer softwares also
in realtime we will have high configuration servers
i am trying to terminate the instance but i am getting some warning what can be the reason?
ans) you have enabled the termination protection
what is userdata in aws?
userdata or bootstrapping script we use userdata when we want to execute some commands or install some softwares while lauchilng the server.
when i am creating an ec2 server in the background it is going to create EBS service ebs is storage for our server. based on ami it will take storage
how do you measure the storage performance?
by using IOPS -input ouput operations per second per gb.
general purpose ssd and provisioned IOPS and magnetic. you can attach this root volume to any server.
tags are used for identification purpose.
pem file is private key. public key will be part of the server.
aws is all about infrastructure like servers storage database network.first of all you need to have infrastructure then only we can deploy our applications and softwares like jekins maven.

 

 



