we can create max 5 vpc in one region
we cane create 200 subnets in one vpc,so we can create 200 RT also
we can allocate 5 elastic ips in one account
once we created VPC, DHCP, NACL and security group,Route table will be automatically created(by default)
VPC exist on Region not on availability zone
vpc is region specific and subnet is AZ specific
In default vpc, there is already IGW is attached to Default VPC
0.0.0.0/0 is the route to internet gateway to access the internet
In custom vpc we have to create IGW
Elastic ip is managed by IGW but elastic ip is associated/allocated to EC2 instance
Amazon IGW supports both IPV4 and IPV6
Custom route table is created by user
Main route table is default route table its destination is given CIDR block and target is local
NAT gateway converts private ip to public ip and public ip to private ip
In NAT instance we can use both public ip and elastic ip, whereas in NAT gateway we only use elastic ip
NAT gateway is always attached to public subnet not to private subnet but NAT GW enables instaces in a private subnet to connect to the internet
In realtime scenario we put our database servers in private subnets in order to secure data from hackers and web servers placed in public subnet(is connected to IGW)
SO there is no direct connection between IGW and private subnet.If database server needs patch updates then private subnet needs to connect to IGW through NAT Gateway.
security group works at subnet/instance level and NACL works at VPC level.
we can create 5 security groups for one ec2 instance
security groups: it can only have permit rules,cannot have deny rule
NACL: You can have permit and deny rules.
default NACL: all traffic allowed(inbound and outbound)
custom NACL:  by default all traffic denied(inbound and outbound) we can allow which port we want 
You can have upto 50 route entries per route table
Each subnet must be associated with only one route table at any given time
If you do not specify a subnet to route table association, the subnet will be associated with  the dafault route table
You can also edit the main route table if you need, you cannot delete main route table
However you can make a custom route table manually become the main route table then you can delete the former main, as it is no longer a main route table
You can associate multiple subnets with the same route table
You are charged for creating and using a NAT gate way in your account. NAT gateway hourly usage and data processing rates apply. Amazon EC2 charges for data transfer also apply.
To crate a NAT gateway, you must specify the public subnet in which the NAT gateway should reside.
You must also spcify an elastic ip address to associate with NAT gateway when you create it.
NO need to assign public ip address to your private instace.
After you have created a NAT gateway you must update the route table associated with one or more of your private subnets to point internet bound traffic to the NAT gateway. this enables
instanes in your private subnet to communicate with the internet.
Deleting a NAT gateway, disassociates its elastic ip address, but does not release the address from your account.
VPC is a virtual network that closely resembles a traditional networking that you operate in your own data cente, with the benefits of using the scalable infrastructure of AWS.or VPC is a
virtual network, or data centre inside AWS for one client. it is logically isolated from other virtual networks in the AWS cloud.

first private ip address is also known as primary ip address. second private ip address is also known as secondary ip address.

public and private ec2 or ip address communication:

public ec2 instance is also known as bastonhost or jump server.

in realtime company will provide you private ec2.but you cannot login.from public ec2 instance you have to loginto private ec2 instance.

first you have to loginto public ec2 and then go to private ec2.

through jump server or bastion host we able to login to private ec2 instance.

How do you move from public ec2 to private ec2 instance?
ans) using bastonhost server.

you can use same key pair to launch public and private ec2 instances in same region.

which kp is used to launch private ec2, use that kp in public ec2.

use nat gateway to get internet in private ec2. nat gateway is chargeable. $0.45 per hour.

private ip address will never change if you restart the instance.

we cannot loginto the private ec2 instance with the help of public ip address and private ip address.






   
 

 

 






 

